Contributing Guide (#3769)
opentripplanner/OpenTripPlanner: CONTRIBUTING.md

# OpenTripPlanner Contributing Guide

Thank you for your interest in contributing to OpenTripPlanner. This document will give you some pointers on how to contact and coordinate with the OTP development team, as well as a description of the contribution process and expectations.

> ## Primary Channels of Communication

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Primary Channels of Communication
```
2 blank lines before and 1 after each heading

> If you have any questions about problems you are encountering with code, deployment, documentation, or development coordination please don't hesitate to post to the OpenTripPlanner discussion groups. These are Google Groups which can be accessed as web forums or as traditional email mailing lists:

Reviewer 2: nit: comma after coordination.

- https://groups.google.com/g/opentripplanner-dev (opentripplanner-dev@googlegroups.com)
- https://groups.google.com/g/opentripplanner-users (opentripplanner-users@googlegroups.com)

Any message posted there will be seen by most of the contributors, some of whom work on OTP full time. It will also create a record of the discussion that will be useful to the larger community and often leads to issues being discussed at the twice-weekly development meetings.

> OTP development meetings occur every Tuesday at 10 AM Central European time and Thursday at 15:00 Central European Time on https://meet.google.com/qwh-xzbz-atr. These meetings are open to anyone who wants to join, even if you simply want to observe the process or ask a few questions. The meeting times have been deliberately chosen to allow participation during regular business hours across as many time zones as possible, from the US (east coast) through Europe and Asia. 

Reviewer 3: We had a discussion about this yesterday. We will change the meeting link to be always static (currently we have had to use different link if the host is not able to join). It can still be debated if we should define the meeting times in text here and/or use an online calendar that can be updated when, in the rare cases, we have to reschedule a meeting.

Reviewer: I think this describe the current situation; hence can be merged. When we improve we will of cause update the document. I agree with @optionsome that we should aim for an online calendar (and link to it from here).

Reviewer: The calendar URL is:

-  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=ormbltvsqb6adl80ejgudt0glc%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FOslo

Reviewer 4: The ical URL to import the calendar is https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/ormbltvsqb6adl80ejgudt0glc@group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics

Most of the contributors to OTP2 are full-time software developers working for organizations with a long term stake in OpenTripPlanner, and are professionally bound to ensure its reliability and efficiency. It is an accepted fact among this team that a large part, perhaps the most important part of software development is careful design and communication with current collaborators and future maintainers of the system. 

You will see a steady stream of pull requests being merged from different organizations. What almost all these have in common is that their authors participated in the weekly meetings, at which they discussed the problem or feature they were addressing, answered questions from the other developers about their design and implementation, and were open to making changes based on the consensus reached at those meetings. If you do not have time to participate in a meeting (or organize a special-purpose call to review code together with other contributors), please understand up front that contributions may stall.

> In sum: if you are interested in integrating your code into core OTP, a significant amount of the time you invest in OTP will need to be spent on collaboration, discussion, documentation, etc. and you will need to be available for regular meetings. You will need to take this into consideration in your budget and timeline.

Reviewer: Should we say something about:
 - Encourage people to call in and discuss how to solve a problem. In the past, almost every PR that comes in without any discussion up front suffer from it and major changes is usually needed to get accepted.
 - We try to optimize the time spent by reviewers - by putting more responsibilities on the PR submitter. We do this with a risk of loosing contributions, but without a "sponsor" organization the time available to review is the bottleneck in the process.

## Additional Considerations for Structuring Pull Requests

When creating and building on a pull request, please do the following:

- Describe in detail the problem you are solving and any major design choices you have made. PR descriptions must clearly state how your changes work.
- Break large changes down into a series of smaller logical steps in separate PRs.
- Tie such series of PRs together with an "epic issue" that explains the overall plan.
- Use Github issue references ("addresses #12" etc.) to connect PRs and issues together.
- Consider squashing and rebasing to make the PR history easier to understand, eliminating extra "noise" commits like accidental changes to organization specific code, abandoned experiments, or reverted configuration changes.

> - If possible, please describe your proposed changes in advance before proceeding too far with development. There are often other people working on the same problem. Coordinating with them can avoid a lot of duplicated effort, conflict, and technical debt.

Reviewer: I personally think this is the most important thing - so maybe we should put it first. Should we write _discuss_ instead of _describe_:

```suggestion
- If possible, please discuss your proposed changes in advance before proceeding too far with development. There are often other input/angles/thoughts and/or plans on the same problem. Coordinating with other OTP developers can avoid a lot of duplicated effort, conflict, and technical debt and make the review a lot easier.
```
> There are often other input/angles/thoughts and/or plans on the same problem.
